prose/index.md, before:

This page stands as an example of supported Markdown-to-HTML processing. Plenty more details and variants available, check respective documentation.

# Blockquotes & footnote

Napoleon alledgedly said[^#]:

```markdown
> Un bon croquis vaut mieux qu'un long discours.
```

> Un bon croquis vaut mieux qu'un long discours.

[^#]: [I did not invent it.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_picture_is_worth_a_thousand_words#Equivalents)

# Emphasis

## General

```markdown
*This text should be italic.* _This should also be italic._

**This text should be bold.** __This should also be bold.__

^^This text should be underlined.^^

~~This text should be crossed out.~~

_One **can** ^^combine^^ all ~~those~~._
```

*This text should be italic.* _This should also be italic._

**This text should be bold.** __This should also be bold.__

^^This text should be underlined.^^

~~This text should be crossed out.~~

_One **can** ^^combine^^ all ~~those~~._

## Sub-/super-script

```markdown
H~2~O

Copyright^©^
```

H~2~O

Copyright^©^

# Equations

Rendered in the browser via [`KaTeX`](https://katex.org/). `$$` and `$` notations are supported.

## Block

```markdown
$$E = m \, c^{2}$$

$$f(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \hat{f}(\xi) \, e^{2 \pi i \xi x} \, d\xi$$
```

$$E = m \, c^{2}$$

$$f(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \hat{f}(\xi) \, e^{2 \pi i \xi x} \, d\xi$$

## Inline

```markdown
And here is an inline equation: $2 \pi i \xi x$.
```

And here is an inline equation: $2 \pi i \xi x$.

# Images

Hijacked and rendered via [`markdown-img`](https://github.com/carnarez/markdown-img).

```markdown
![Polars Python Logo ?size=200px*](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pola-rs/polars-static/master/web/polars-logo-python.svg)
```

![Polars Python Logo ?size=200px*](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pola-rs/polars-static/master/web/polars-logo-python.svg)

# Inline code

```markdown
Inline code blocks such as `import polars as pl` are not highlighted.
```

Inline code blocks such as `import polars as pl` are not highlighted.

# Insert

The syntax cannot be demonstrated as inserts work even within code blocks. But below is...:

&[](insert.md)

# Links

```markdown
[My GitHub](https://github.com/carnarez)
```

[My GitHub](https://github.com/carnarez)

# Lists

## Unordered list

```markdown
* Item
* Item
    * Subitem
    * Subitem
```

* Item
* Item
    * Subitem
    * Subitem

## Ordered list

```markdown
1. Item 1
1. Item 2
    1. Item 2a
    1. Item 2b
```

1. Item 1
1. Item 2
    1. Item 2a
    1. Item 2b

# Markdown in HTML

```markdown
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Test</summary>

**This is bold**, ^^this is underlined^^.

</details>
```

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Test</summary>

**This is bold**, ^^this is underlined^^.

</details>

# Mermaid diagram

Rendered in the browser via [`Mermaid`](https://mermaidjs.github.io/).

````markdown
```mermaid
graph LR
  A --> B
  B --> C
```
````

```mermaid
graph LR
  A --> B
  B --> C
```

And a more complicated one from the official website:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Alice
  participant Bob
  Alice ->> John: Hello John, how are you?
  loop Healthcheck
    John ->> John: Fight against hypochondria
  end
  Note right of John: Rational thoughts <br/>prevail!
  John -->> Alice: Great!
  John ->> Bob: How about you?
  Bob -->> John: Jolly good!
```

Check [this page](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/theming) to style diagrams.

# Scripts

Rendered via [`markdown-script`](https://github.com/carnarez/markdown-script).

```markdown
%[Some JavaScript](/wherever/script.js)
```

%[Some JavaScript](/wherever/script.js)

# Syntax highlighting

Rendered in the browser via [`highlight.js`](https://highlightjs.org/).

````markdown
```python
import polars as pl
```
````

```python
import polars as pl

q = (
    pl.scan_csv("iris.csv")
    .filter(pl.col("sepal_length") > 5)
    .groupby("species")
    .agg(pl.all().sum())
)

df = q.collect()
```

# Tables

```markdown
First Header | Second Header
------------ | -------------
Content from cell 1 | Content from cell 2
Content in the first column | Content in the second column
$2 \pi r^{2}$ | With inline equation
```

First Header | Second Header
------------ | -------------
Content from cell 1 | Content from cell 2
Content in the first column | Content in the second column
$2 \pi r^{2}$ | With inline equation

# Title

Using the `#` to `######` notation.

## Subtitle

Text

### Section

Text

#### Subsection

Text

##### Paragraph

Text

###### Subparagraph

Text

Commit message:

Tweaked the example to illustrate inserts better

prose/index.md, after:

This page stands as an example of supported Markdown-to-HTML processing. Plenty more details and variants available, check respective documentation.

# Blockquotes & footnote

Napoleon alledgedly said[^#]:

```markdown
> Un bon croquis vaut mieux qu'un long discours.
```

> Un bon croquis vaut mieux qu'un long discours.

[^#]: [I did not invent it.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_picture_is_worth_a_thousand_words#Equivalents)

# Emphasis

## General

```markdown
*This text should be italic.* _This should also be italic._

**This text should be bold.** __This should also be bold.__

^^This text should be underlined.^^

~~This text should be crossed out.~~

_One **can** ^^combine^^ all ~~those~~._
```

*This text should be italic.* _This should also be italic._

**This text should be bold.** __This should also be bold.__

^^This text should be underlined.^^

~~This text should be crossed out.~~

_One **can** ^^combine^^ all ~~those~~._

## Sub-/super-script

```markdown
H~2~O

Copyright^©^
```

H~2~O

Copyright^©^

# Equations

Rendered in the browser via [`KaTeX`](https://katex.org/). `$$` and `$` notations are supported.

## Block

```markdown
$$E = m \, c^{2}$$

$$f(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \hat{f}(\xi) \, e^{2 \pi i \xi x} \, d\xi$$
```

$$E = m \, c^{2}$$

$$f(x) = \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} \hat{f}(\xi) \, e^{2 \pi i \xi x} \, d\xi$$

## Inline

```markdown
And here is an inline equation: $2 \pi i \xi x$.
```

And here is an inline equation: $2 \pi i \xi x$.

# Images

Hijacked and rendered via [`markdown-img`](https://github.com/carnarez/markdown-img).

```markdown
![Polars Python Logo ?size=200px*](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pola-rs/polars-static/master/web/polars-logo-python.svg)
```

![Polars Python Logo ?size=200px*](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pola-rs/polars-static/master/web/polars-logo-python.svg)

# Inline code

```markdown
Inline code blocks such as `import polars as pl` are not highlighted.
```

Inline code blocks such as `import polars as pl` are not highlighted.

# Insert

```bash
$ cat insert.md
> This is the content of the insert.
```

Syntax is abused from the Markdown link, and works even within code blocks: `&[]()`. For instance `&[](insert.md)` would render:

&[](insert.md)

Note the insert is [also available rendered](insert.html); fancy scripting (in the `Dockerfile` for instance) could get rid of it.

# Links

```markdown
[My GitHub](https://github.com/carnarez)
```

[My GitHub](https://github.com/carnarez)

# Lists

## Unordered list

```markdown
* Item
* Item
    * Subitem
    * Subitem
```

* Item
* Item
    * Subitem
    * Subitem

## Ordered list

```markdown
1. Item 1
1. Item 2
    1. Item 2a
    1. Item 2b
```

1. Item 1
1. Item 2
    1. Item 2a
    1. Item 2b

# Markdown in HTML

```markdown
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Test</summary>

**This is bold**, ^^this is underlined^^.

</details>
```

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Test</summary>

**This is bold**, ^^this is underlined^^.

</details>

# Mermaid diagram

Rendered in the browser via [`Mermaid`](https://mermaidjs.github.io/).

````markdown
```mermaid
graph LR
  A --> B
  B --> C
```
````

```mermaid
graph LR
  A --> B
  B --> C
```

And a more complicated one from the official website:

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
  participant Alice
  participant Bob
  Alice ->> John: Hello John, how are you?
  loop Healthcheck
    John ->> John: Fight against hypochondria
  end
  Note right of John: Rational thoughts <br/>prevail!
  John -->> Alice: Great!
  John ->> Bob: How about you?
  Bob -->> John: Jolly good!
```

Check [this page](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/theming) to style diagrams.

# Scripts

Rendered via [`markdown-script`](https://github.com/carnarez/markdown-script).

```markdown
%[Some JavaScript](/wherever/script.js)
```

%[Some JavaScript](/wherever/script.js)

# Syntax highlighting

Rendered in the browser via [`highlight.js`](https://highlightjs.org/).

````markdown
```python
import polars as pl
```
````

```python
import polars as pl

q = (
    pl.scan_csv("iris.csv")
    .filter(pl.col("sepal_length") > 5)
    .groupby("species")
    .agg(pl.all().sum())
)

df = q.collect()
```

# Tables

```markdown
First Header | Second Header
------------ | -------------
Content from cell 1 | Content from cell 2
Content in the first column | Content in the second column
$2 \pi r^{2}$ | With inline equation
```

First Header | Second Header
------------ | -------------
Content from cell 1 | Content from cell 2
Content in the first column | Content in the second column
$2 \pi r^{2}$ | With inline equation

# Title

Using the `#` to `######` notation.

## Subtitle

Text

### Section

Text

#### Subsection

Text

##### Paragraph

Text

###### Subparagraph

Text
